[Music]
[Applause]
I was here at a patola exactly almost
one year ago today while attempting
monkey madness wand on a level 16
hardcore Ironman using only raw potatoes
but today I'm facing a challenge I would
say which took even more patience and
skill I'm attempting to complete monkey
madness to at the lowest possible combat
level in the entire game
all while avoiding combat XP in both
preparation and during the actual quest
itself just to reminder if you all enjoy
what you see later in this video
a subscription to my channel is greatly
appreciated and you'll get notified with
new uploads as soon as they're out as
well my merch store is still open and
these videos take a lot of time to
produce and I mean a lot therefore if
you wanted to show some monetary support
which is completely optional you could
go check out my new items on the merch
store which I will link in the
description some of these include the
new Bwana rindy poster made by Legends
arts representing the four combat fire
cape and I've also recently added a join
button to the channel but anyways let's
get down to business monkey business
monkey madness 2 is the first
grandmaster quest to hit old school
runescape and let's just say I've never
done this quest on any other build or
even a Mane I've never really had the
option to since it has such high
requirements and all my accounts tend to
be lower combat levels the lowest level
I could find anywhere that completed
this Grand Master Quest was level 56 now
they had used a cannon to actually train
the Slayer up and had avoided hitpoints
experience for this requirement even at
one point saying it was the only way to
train Slayer that is because this quest
has a whopping level 69 slayer
requirement luckily there are other ways
to not use a cannon and trained Slayer
without range xp and I've shown these in
a couple previous videos there is this
one method I have been using for quite
some time being partner Slayer combined
with neutral damage and last hitting
zeros this grants you around half XP and
Slayer per kill and the Desmet comes out
to be around only five thousand to ten
thousand total Slayer XP on average per
hour this means if I was to go for the
lowest level monkey madness to possible
then I would need well over 130 hours
invested into multi logging accounts
using this partner method and training
my Slayer all the way up to 69 and this
is exactly what it's taught me in the
past from ever even touching this quest
during my lower the better series but
one man made this quest possible and
that man is tedious tedious is a content
creator who was actually the first on
YouTube to show this very hidden partner
Slayer method and therefore he had an
old level 3 combat account with around
70 slayer when he made the video a
couple years ago he gave me the account
to you specifically for this video and
to train this unique level 3 up bird
monkey madness to quest completion now
if Slayer wasn't enough in itself I had
an entire list of requirements to run
down 4 other high level skills such as
70 crafting 60 hunter 55 agility 55
thieving and 60 fire making once again
all these requirements really pushed my
two-week upload date to a stretch and
therefore I had my good friend chest bra
help me to train these stats so I wanted
to have a big shout-out to him and both
of these great friends for helping me
along the way for all of these skill
requirements now if the skill
requirements weren't enough
well I still had a lot and I mean a lot
of quests to complete before being able
to start monkey madness to the first of
these quests were the tree gnome village
and grand tree
both are warding attack xp to this level
3 account to do these quests without
ruining the hitpoints experience of this
account I would cannon both of the
bosses from safe spots while using Ches
bra as a human block as well during the
grand tree I would specifically used
Ches brow salts to block the bats that
spawned all around while being able to
place my cannon in a specific location
to kill only the demon boss and not the
100 rats running around the area behind
him
[Music]
next I would have to complete monkey
madness one unlike the potato only
hardcore Ironman I decided I would take
on this quest entirely solo all with
only ten head points to do this I did
part of one small favor for gothics
rests unlocked to boost my hit points to
fifteen over ten throughout the quest as
the hardest hitting NPC was the monkey
skeleton in the tunnel
max inna 14
[Music]
[Applause]
I also used the tall grass in a lot of
areas to safespot monkey archers it's a
little-known fact but this tall grass
here actually makes you completely
invincible and invisible to these
archers the tunnels themselves were a
breeze as I use chocolate cake combo
beats and new gothic stress while
avoiding clumps of NPCs at the final
boss fight as shown in Prior videos I
would enter the fight to keep the demons
attack then go down the trap door to
de-spawn the demon from here I would go
back up the ladder and go set down a
cannon once he had D spawned
[Music]
I'm stuck all
after monkey minus one I would need to
collect all monkey bones for Gregory's
used in the recipe for disaster portion
at this point I was allowed to access my
friend Mahler's account to see if I
could in fact use this old bugged
account with RFD done and no darou
training then to start mmm - without the
combat EXPEED but it seemed
unfortunately that the Nome King you
start the quest with would not give you
the monkey madness - starting dialogue
and instead would insist you see Darrow
for training so this meant no matter
what I would have to take the combat XP
reward from Darrow after the monkey
madness quest for training and in order
to minimize my combat level the attack
and defense reward would be far more
acceptable the strength and hit points
reward as it would lower my combat and
combat XP after accepting this painful
combat ex Peter Ward from Darrow I
returned to complete the rft portion of
Qinghua key the only different part
during this quest was the final snake
pit which is a multi area that has these
snakes dealing upwards of 14 damage each
here it is extremely easy to die but I
could run into a corner and set up my
cannon perfectly in order to trap these
snakes on top of one another all while
taking zero damage and allowing my
candidate damage all of the snakes even
the one I was standing on top of next I
took on some more required quests such
as Watchtower the eyes of glory
enlightened journey and lastly death
plateau along with a troll stronghold
now with the troll stronghold quest I
would once again have to utilize a
cannon to minimize by hit points
experience and since I had now attack
and strength XP from the Darrow award
this meant I could get both upwards of
53 ranged and magic before being based
in either of these death but Oh small
attack expiry was the last combat reward
I would gain from any other quest in
this video and after this you can
therefore see my new stats I will have
to take on monkey madness too as well
chess Pro thought I would need a new
name change
[Music]
bah
now with the 10 massive quest completed
and a shitload of skills I was finally
able to actually go about starting
monkey madness - to start the quest off
I had to do the obvious mundane task of
creating this note and well you might
just want to remember this for later in
the video
the real struggles began to come inside
the path on the way to find crud I
decided to actually go tank route over
the agility route for several reasons
well the first was I was only 55 agility
meaning I would likely fail hundreds of
times and while there were mass loads of
maniacal monkeys at the bottom of every
failure meaning I would likely need to
teleport out every single time and then
come all the way back there for Chester
I had the brilliant idea and I quote the
10 current will be easy I'll just guide
you through it and everything will
attack me instead of you he had trained
for days and mapped out how we were
going to do this while planning to be my
escort on his two alts therefore with
his masterful wisdom there is no way in
hell this idea could ever fail what's
the point of doing the shot bro thanks
boss trust me no it's not I'm what if I
ever been wrong about anything right now
tank round
this is so easy they don't even attack
you here come here
should I brew and stamina no you don't
even eat it oh my god oh my what okay
I'm safe right here now what okay no I'm
not safe I'm not safe at all it's just
[__] it's better chilly well it turns
out every monkey Archer will fire you no
matter who originally takes their
aggression and this tank card has
multiple pathways dependent on each
player's orangy so therefore I would get
destroyed every time I ran into almost
any room even with chess bras help and
while chess Brock couldn't even go into
half the rooms I was depending on the
start of this god-awful maze as well he
just couldn't figure out which account
was which out of the two he was moving
half the time
so once again it was up to myself not
chest bra on solving this tank route to
Kruk I had devised a plan and I'll be
damned if I'm going to spend upwards of
two days game time crossing either of
these paths I thought to myself and
quickly came to a realization well what
if I was just fake blood for the whole
path none of these NPCs could attack me
because they would think I'm logged out
now I've shown fake logs in the past for
videos such as the overused combat fake
log most of these fake logs you can't
even move with or even if you can it's
only a matter of ten seconds until your
auto logged out and therefore those
wouldn't really have any effect in this
very long maze and I would need
something that lasted at least probably
ten minutes or more a fake log to get
through this whole damn thing so how
would I extend a ten second fake log
into a ten minute fake log well there
could possibly be one item and one
dumbass looking strategy which I
discovered just a few months ago which
could take that fake log up to the ten
minute mark poorly coded damage
inflicting over a load potion copy
I found out during the Caliphate queen
video that divine potions can actually
extend your combat timer past the
initial 10 seconds before being able to
log out so this gave me the idea would I
be able to extend a fake log past the 10
seconds as well and of course this
worked perfectly and for every divine
potion I sipped and took 10 damage I was
able to extend my fake log timer by yet
another 10 seconds but I would have to
heal with two brews between each of the
10 damage to make sure my HP never got
too low to where I couldn't use that
divine potion under 10 hit points but
even a full inventory of Divine's and
brews wouldn't get me near to 10 minutes
so even after all of this Chesbrough had
a part to play in solving this maze
[Music]
now at the beginning of these obstacles
there are three maniacal monkeys which
can kill me meaning I need to fake log
before even passing them and at the
bottom of these obstacles well there's
about a hundred of these maniacal
monkeys which could easily one hit me if
I were to drop below so instead I will
have chest burrow on his two alts lining
up and grabbing the aggro far far away
from the agility Falls for these
maniacal monkeys therefore if I fail at
Jill the obstacle it will be impossible
for these nearly 100 monkeys to come one
hit me and Oh a thick log before
climbing the rope near the other
monkey's before trying each obstacle yet
again to avoid those three
[Music]
finally I overcame the agility obstacles
and the entire maze with the help of my
potions and well now I could unlock a
secret passage in case I fail the boss
which I did Kruk has a melee and range
attack it's immune to poison and you
can't set up a cannon down here also
this boss is instance meaning chess rod
can't help me with Vinge's well except
for the initial one so here's where it
gets interesting I will be taking
recoils and using those to take down
crux entire 200-plus head points now his
attacks can hit over my hit points so I
will be ticketing every single attack
like it's a melee attack even if it is a
range attack because I can't tell the
difference on the initial come out
behind a safe spot how do you taking a
melee attack you ask well there is no
delay and I don't have a mind shield on
this account similar to the three combat
fire Cape account and it's melee tick
eating but do you remember this note I
told you about at the beginning of this
quest well it's got two interfaces that
pop up one after another meaning I don't
even need a shield or a stall to stack
the two interfaces for my prayer book
and that one of these interfaces will
prioritize the close before the damage
registers on my character from a melee
attack giving me exactly one tick to
perfect a ticket on every one of Krux
200 attacks and a one tick delay before
his damage hits me
[Music]
[Applause]
eat [__] and die
[Music]
now Kruk and his tunnels were probably
the biggest portion of this entire quest
but to my dismay even after completing
it I found at the next to me boss NPCs I
would have to kill also deal a [__] ton
of damage over my max head points maxing
in the 40s for both of these both of
these NPCs are also immune to poison
venom and even cannon but once again
recoils still work and this time guess
what it's not instanced meaning I can
sit here at near max hit points while
chess Provinces me on his alts to do
quick and maximum damage while tick
eating their attacks close to my full HP
[Music]
finally I was able to move on to
traversing the platform within this
quest on this platform Monkey guards
patrol the area and will kick you out if
you are caught so normally like any
other account I would just hide to avoid
these NPCs at all costs during monkey
madness - but then I realized I still
have some more divine potions in my bank
and well all these guards are NPCs
meaning they can't see me if I'm fake
logged so I'm just going to free run
this entire platform while damaging
myself the whole way
[Music]
now I had to go about writing a monkey
while killing a monkey luckily when you
are mounted on these things you get a
huge stat increase and I can virtually
hit 20s as well the XP is highly reduced
only granting me maybe a total of three
defense XP while hurting all three of
these tortured gorillas although my hit
points defense and prayer was still
extremely low to fight these high level
NPCs so low but fortunately there was an
object in the middle of this room that I
could use to flinch these and take
virtually zero damage from them
[Music]
next I met up with my friend Neve to
take on some tortured guerrillas but
this time in the Nome stronghold here I
once again used chess profs help the
avenges although I wouldn't need to take
eat the melee attacks from these NPCs as
their max hit wasn't quite as high as
the other NPC's earlier on during this
quest
now of course I am using a quest guide
so I know my best friend here Nev will
die before the final fight coming up
ooh that got our heard therefore I
decided to have some fun with her before
she left and hot some other fellow
players in honor of her memory
[Music]
this might be a little off-topic but
oddly enough her range of where she can
free walk normally isn't even coated
properly to the gnome stronghold gates
and you can literally just teleport a
barbarian assault with a game's necklace
and walk around northeast of the
stronghold either that or go barbarian
fishing next I prepared myself for the
tortured and demonic guerrillas you're
required to fight before the actual
final fight glove for this fight I
literally just sat practically afk for
30 minutes while having me finish off
the guerrillas from a safe distance
although this was effective and got me
zero combat XP like earlier tasks in
this quest I got extremely unlucky with
the first attempt that is because
whenever you're killing the last two
demonic guerrillas they spawn with a
random protection prayer up and well the
last guerrilla decided to spawn with
protect melee up instead of protect
range as the prior therefore Nev
couldn't do any damage and I would have
to teleport out and repeat this entire
30-minute afk fight
[Music]
luckily the quest will save the
completion of defeating these four NPCs
so I could teleport out and plan for
glup separately at any time
finally I was here and Neves death
wasn't in vain all I would have to do to
complete monkey - - at the lowest combat
level possible was to defeat glove but
glove was no joke honestly this is one
of the most difficult challenges I've
yet faced in rs Bluff has an XP bonus if
I attack it it's immune to cannon immune
to poison immune to venom and it's
instanced but guess what once again
there is one thing this NPC like every
other NPC in this quest isn't immune to
[Music]
but there was still some problems this
boss is 575 hitpoints meaning it will
take me roughly an entire hour or more
to perfectly recoil this boss down also
this boss hit 61 s meaning almost
doubled my hit points so basically I
will need to take eat this boss but
according to some and my research on
reddit it is not take eatable
fortunately I found this to be false
although initially galuf's first for
melee attack is a tick late than normal
melee attacks this is a rare instance
where I can tick eat in melee attack but
basically all of these tickets have to
be tick perfect as well the range attack
has low delay from its projectile and
gloves last form has a teleport attack
that pulls you into its melee range with
almost zero delay this was not going to
be fun and not to mention once again
this boss fight is instanced meaning
every time I die I can't pick up the
near 700 purple sweets I will bring in
per attempt
[Music]
[Applause]
Donita
literally our and 10 [__] minutes
dude stupidest [__] under 750 sweets
homeboy
I'm what if I ever been wrong about
anything at this point I was completely
out of purple sweets and there was only
one man I could call upon for help in
this trying time
[Music]
ah
run
this quest line was
frustrating and difficult but in the end
we had defeated glove making us the
lowest possible combat level that had
completed monkey madness - in the entire
game
[Music]
that's an indiscreet buddy once again if
you all did find yourself and join this
video a subscription to my channel is
always welcome and greatly appreciated I
hope you all stay safe out there and
I'll see you again very very soon